Jeff Bezos attended Montessori school from the age of two. While there, his teacher complained to his mother that he was **“too task-focused”** and she couldn’t get him to switch tasks. She would have to pick up his chair and move him to the next activity. Bezos jokingly admitted that this is likely still true of him, according to the people he works with.

Bezos has expressed great enthusiasm for early childhood education. His mother runs the Bezos Family Foundation and has become an expert in early education, while Bezos himself is a student of Montessori schools. He believes that **if children fall behind in their education early on, it’s very hard to catch up.** Conversely, if a child is given a leg up at two, three, or four years old, they’re less likely to fall behind. He describes this as a **“powerful compounding effect”**, noting that the money spent in early childhood education will pay dividends for decades.

Bezos plans to use his $2 billion philanthropic gift to establish a network of full-tuition preschools in low-income neighborhoods using a **“Montessori-inspired”** model. He plans to hire an executive team and leadership to run the schools, which will operate as non-profits. He believes that most people have been mindful of ensuring their children have good preschool education and believes that it’s important to give this opportunity to children from low-income families. He sees the **child as the “customer”** in these schools and plans to be “obsessively compulsively focused” on their needs.