When the Eremitani Church in Padua, Italy, was bombed during World War II, frescoes by Mantegna and other renowned painters were destroyed. While high-resolution black-and-white pictures of the frescoes existed, the only fresco fragments remaining were a jumbled mess of rubble. Though art conservators attempted to reconstruct the frescoes, the task seemed impossible until the 1990s. At that time, a project was started to digitize the approximately 80,000 fragments, which covered 78 square meters in total. These fragments represented only about 20% of the original frescoes, and only a small fraction of these contained distinguishing features. **To reconstruct the frescoes, it was necessary to know both the location and the rotation of each fragment.** This posed a monumental challenge that was overcome using mathematics. 

Images are digitized by representing them as a grid of tiny squares, called pixels, with each pixel assigned a number corresponding to its color or gray level. **Massimo Fonasier realized that circular harmonics, special mathematical functions, could be used to represent image data in a way that facilitated the handling of rotation.** Circular harmonics have predictable rotation properties: rotating a circular harmonic simply results in the same circular harmonic multiplied by a known complex number. This means that the numerical representation of a rotated circular harmonic can be easily calculated.

Using circular harmonics, any image on a disk can be represented as a sum of these functions. **Once an image was decomposed into its circular harmonic components, Fonasier could pre-compute what the rotated versions of each circular harmonic would look like for any angle of rotation.** This information could then be used to quickly calculate the numerical representation of the entire image rotated at any angle without having to re-compute the decomposition into circular harmonics. Volunteers could then use this information to quickly compare fresco fragments to the black and white images of the original frescoes.

A computer program would compare a given fragment at a variety of rotations to the original fresco image, suggesting the most likely locations for the fragment. The human volunteers would then confirm or reject the computer program’s suggestions. Once the position of a fragment had been determined, art conservators could use the fragment's color to inform their reconstruction of the fresco. In this way, the Eremitani Church frescoes were painstakingly reconstructed through a collaboration between mathematics and human ingenuity.